# Upgrade from DBPTK Enterprise 3.X to DBPTK Enterprise 4.X

This guide outlines the steps required to upgrade DBPTK Enterprise from version 3.X to version 4.
Before starting the new version of DBPTK follow these steps.
A Solr index and a zookeeper data backup is recommended before the start of this proceedure as DBPTK 4 uses Solr 10.

## Add Your Machine's IP Address to DBPTK Whitelist

If CAS authentication is not enabled, you can skip this step.

### Prerequisites:
- These scripts can only be executed by users with an administrator role.
- To run them, you must first modify the DBPTK configuration file (`dbvtk-viewer.properties`).

### Instructions:

1. Open the `dbvtk-viewer.properties` file.
2. Ensure the following property is set to `true`:
    ```
    ui.filter.onOff.protectedResourcesAllowAllIPs=true
    ```
3. Add the following lines to the same file:
    ```
    ui.filter.onOff.protectedResourcesWhitelistedIP[].ip=<ip_address>
    ui.filter.onOff.protectedResourcesWhitelistedIP[].username=admin
    ```
    Replace `<ip_address>` with the IP address of the machine where you will be running the scripts.

4. After updating the file, you may need to restart DBPTK for the changes to take effect.

## Start DBPTK 4
After starting DBPTK 4 with Solr 10 follow the next steps before doing any other operations on the system.

### Migrate the h2 database to PostgreSQL

After starting DBPTK 4, the h2 database data must be migrated to the new PostgreSQL database.

#### Export the h2 data
The `export.sh` script extracts data from an H2 `.mv.db` file, cleans the syntax for PostgreSQL compatibility, and generates a standalone SQL file.
Run the following command to export the h2 database data:
```bash
sudo ./scripts/migrate-h2/export.sh <data.mv.db_file_path>
```
Replace `<data.mv.db_file_path>` with the path to the data.mv.db file. Usually it is inside a folder called **h2** on the DBPTK home directory. 
The script will generate a file called **pg_data_only.sql**

#### Import Data to PostgreSQL
The `import.sh` script connects to a running PostgreSQL instance, temporarily disables foreign key constraints, inserts the data, and updates the Spring Batch sequences to prevent ID collisions.

**Usage:**
```bash
./scripts/migrate-h2/import.sh <input_sql> <pg_host> <pg_port> <pg_user> <pg_password> <pg_db>
```
- `input_sql`: The file generated by the export script (e.g., `pg_data_only.sql`).
- `pg_host`: IP or hostname of the PostgreSQL server (the default is postgres).
- `pg_port`: Port (default is 5432).
- `pg_user`: Database username (the default is dbptk_user).
- `pg_password`: Database password (the default is dbptk).
- `pg_db`: Target database name (the default is dbptk_db).

###  Reindex databases

Reindex databases by running:

```bash
./scripts/01-databases-reindex.sh <host>
```

Replace `<host>` with the DBPTK host.

### Map tika SIARD-files volume
Tika needs access to the SIARD files folder used by DBPTK so it can perform text extraction.
On the tika service volumes, map your SIARD files folder (the one from the DBPTK service) to the /SIARD-files
```bash
volumes:
    # map /SIARD-files to the desired folder
    - <path_to_SIARD_files_folder>:/SIARD-files
```


